#summary Ontology for modeling mutation impact knowledge.

*The Mutation Impact Extraction Ontology (MIEO)* is central to our infrastructure. It currently classes and properties necessary to represent information about mutations at protein level, identified in texts, and extracted mutation impacts on molecular functions. For example, _!AminoAcidSequenceChange_ is the class for mutations at protein level. Instances of _!ProteinVariant_ are most specific types of protein molecules that completely identify the corresponding amino acid sequences. Instances of _!ProteinPropertyChange_ are identified changes of protein properties, that can be linked to the properties that change, corresponding documents and specific fragments, and mutations they result from. To characterize a property change, e. g., as positive, which may correspond to increased activity, we can use the suclass _!PositiveProteinPropertyChange_. Protein properties, such as molecular functions, are also modelled as individuals whose types are currently taken from the [http://www.geneontology.org Gene Ontology].
<br>
Note that some of our target mutation tasks are related to the extraction of relations between entities rather than just identifying some entities of interest. We use custom reification for such relation, in particular to facilitate linking them to documents and more specific provenance information. For example, extracted statements of mutations impacting protein properties are represented as instance of the class _!StatementOfMutationEffect_. Likewise, instances of _!StatementOfProteinPropertyChange_ link protein property change instances to the corresponding protein properties.
Note that our MIEO uses the [http://code.google.com/p/semanticscience/wiki/SIO Semanticscience Integrated Ontology (SIO)] as an upper ontology, and the [http://lsrn.org LSRN ontology] to represent records and identifiers, as illustrated in the next section.

= Download =
[http://cbakerlab:8080/ontologies/mutation-impact-extraction-ontology.owl] <br>
[http://code.google.com/p/mutation-text-mining/downloads/detail?name=mutation-impact-extraction-ontology.owl&can=2&q= mutation-impact-extraction-ontology.owl]