#summary Tool to align strings. Aligns strings in RDF models.

= String Alignment Tool ==
The provenance enhancement utility helps in situations when the sources of annotation data only provide fragments of texts as provenance, without specifying their positions in the text, such as in the Enzyminer and OMM Impact corpora. Note that the annotations in the OMM Impact corpus have position numbers, but, since the original text is not provided, the alignment of annotations with the original text still requires an additional simple program.<br>
We implemented a procedure to align corresponding text fragments based on their similarity. To calculate a similarity score for two fragment candidates we use the implementation of Levenstein distance algorithm from Lucene. If fragments had differing lengths, we calculated the similarity score for their overlap. We avoided multiple alignments – each text fragment in a systems results can
be aligned to the gold standard only once. Two fragments get aligned if the similarity score is above the threshold. We used a threshold equal to 0.83 to boost the precision on the Enzyminer corpus used for training to 100%. The price for this is a slight decrease in recall, which still reaches 0.99. The procedure achieved >0.99 for both precision and recall on the test corpus – the OMM Impact corpus.

== Download ==
String Aligner is part of _mutation-benhcmark_ project. Download jar file [http://code.google.com/p/mutation-text-mining/downloads/detail?name=mutation-benchmark-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar&can=2&q= HERE] <br>
Source Code is available [http://code.google.com/p/mutation-text-mining/downloads/detail?name=mutation-benchmark-1.0-SNAPSHOT-project.zip&can=2&q= HERE]

== Usage ==
Example: align strings in _impact-omm_ repository on _`http://localhost:8080/openrdf-sesame`_ between two graphs - _`http://example.com/gold-standard.rdf`_ and _`http://example.com/experiment.rdf`_ in _run_ mode (in "run" mode, all alignments will be applied; in "simulate" mode, alignments are not applied to the repository).
{{{
java -cp mutation-benchmark-1.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar \
ca.unbsj.cbakerlab.mutation_benchmark.SimilarStringAlignerCLI \
-s http://localhost:8080/openrdf-sesame \
-r impact-omm \
-g http://example.com/gold-standard.rdf \
-e http://example.com/experiment.rdf \
--mode run
}}}

== Delete alignment ==
{{{
PREFIX rdf:<http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>
PREFIX mieo:<http://unbsj.biordf.net/ontologies/mutation-impact-extraction-ontology.owl#>
PREFIX sio:<http://semanticscience.org/resource/>
DELETE WHERE {
   ?sim a mieo:StringSimilarity .
   ?str1 sio:SIO_000008 ?sim . 
   ?str2 sio:SIO_000008 ?sim .
   ?sim sio:SIO_000300 ?value .
}
}}}